THE CHOICE -- THE
CHOICE WE MAKE
THIS NOVEMBER IS GOING TO DECIDE
THE FUTURE OF AMERICA FOR A
VERY, VERY LONG TIME.
AND I HAD A GREAT CHOICE, GREAT
OPPORTUNITIES.
I HAD A GREAT CHOICE, BUT I HAVE
NO DOUBT THAT I PICKED THE RIGHT
PERSON TO JOIN ME AS THE NEXT
VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA, AND THAT'S
SENATOR KAMALA HARRIS.
IT SEEMS THAT AMERICANS ALL
ACROSS THIS NATION, AT LEAST AT
THE OUTSET HERE, AGREE WITH ME.
YESTERDAY WE HAD OUR BEST
GRASSROOTS FUNDRAISING DAY OF
THE CAMPAIGN, MORE THAN DOUBLE
OUR PREVIOUS RECORD, AND IN
DOING SO WE SET A SINGLE DAY
RECORD FOR ONLINE POLITICAL
FUNDRAISING.
I THINK I KNOW I.
-- I KNOW WHY.
I HOPE YOU'LL JOIN US AS WELL,
THOSE WHO LISTEN TODAY.
GO TO JOEBIDEN.COM TODAY.
FIVE DOLLARS, $10, WHATEVER.
KAMALA IS SMART, SHE IS TOUGH,
EXPERIENCED.
SHE IS A PROVEN FIGHTER FOR THE
BACKBONE OF THIS COUNTRY, THE
MIDDLE CLASS.
ARE ALL THOSE STRUGGLING TO GET
INTO THE MIDDLE CLASS, KAMALA
KNOWS HOW TO GOVERN.
SHE KNOWS HOW TO MAKE THE HARD
CALLS.
SHE IS READY TO DO THIS JOB ON
DAY ONE.
WE ARE BOTH READY TO GET TO WORK
REBUILDING THIS NATION AND
BUILDING IT BETTER.
AS ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE
LARGEST STATE IN THE COUNTRY,
KAMALA TOOK ON THE BIG BANKS
OVER MORTGAGE FRAUD AND WON.
TOOK ON BIG OIL, WHO WANTED TO
POLLUTE WITHOUT CONSEQUENCES.
SHE IS A PIONEER IN MARRIAGE
EQUALITY AND TACKLED THE GUN
LOBBY.
YOU KNOW, WE'VE ALL WATCHED THE
UNITED STATES SENATE GO TOE TO
TOE WITH TRUMP OFFICIALS, TRYING
TO HIDE THE TRUTH, ASKING THE
TOUGH QUESTIONS THAT NEED TO BE
ASKED AND NOT --, BUT AS A
MEMBER OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE AND THE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE, SHE HAS BEEN THE
SENATOR IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
MOST MASSIVE SECURITY CHALLENGES
OUR COUNTRY FACES.
WELL AWARE, WELL AWARE OF ALL
THE THREATS TO THIS NATION AND
READY TO RESPOND TO THEM.
AS A CHILD OF IMMIGRANTS, SHE
KNOWS PERSONALLY HOW IMMIGRANT
FAMILIES ENRICH OUR COUNTRY, AS
WELL AS THE CHALLENGES OF WHAT
IT MEANS TO GROW UP BLACK AND
INDIAN-AMERICAN IN THE UNITED
STATES AND THE AMERICA -- IN THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
HER STORY IS DIFFERENT FROM MINE
AND MANY PARTICULARS, BUT NOT SO
DIFFERENT IN THE ESSENTIALS.
SHE HAS WORKED HARD, SHE HAS
NEVER BACKED DOWN FROM A
CHALLENGE, AND SHE HAS EARNED
EACH AND EVERY OF THE ACCOLADES
AND ACHIEVEMENTS THAT SHE HAS
GAINED, MANY OF THEM OFTEN IN
THE FACE OF OBSTACLES THAT
OTHERS PUT IN HER WAY, BUT NEVER
QUIT.
THIS MORNING, ALL ACROSS THE
NATION, LITTLE GIRLS WOKE UP,
ESPECIALLY LITTLE BLACK AND
BROWN GIRLS, WHO SO OFTEN FEEL
OVERLOOKED AND UNDERVALUED IN
THEIR COMMUNITIES, BUT TODAY --
TODAY, JUST MAYBE, THEY ARE
SEEING THEMSELVES FOR THE FIRST
TIME IN A NEW WAY, AS THE STUFF
OF PRESIDENTS AND VICE
PRESIDENTS.
IN HER CAMPAIGN IN THE PRIMARY,
KAMALA OFTEN TALKED ABOUT THE
3:00 A.M. AGENDA, THE MOMS AND
DADS AWAKE LATE AT NIGHT IN
THEIR KITCHENS, WORRIED, SCARED,
UNCERTAIN ABOUT HOW THEY WERE
GOING TO TAKE CARE OF THEIR
FAMILIES, ABOUT HOW THEY WERE
GOING TO PAY THE BILLS, ABOUT
HOW THEY WERE GOING TO SIMPLY
MAKE IT.
GROWING UP IN SCRANTON IN
CLAYMONT, DELAWARE, I SAW THAT
STRUGGLE WITH MY FAMILY AS WELL
AS HE KAMALA SAW IT WITH HERS AS
WELL.
MILLIONS OF AMERICANS ARE LIVING
THAT STRUGGLE AS WE SPEAK,
ESPECIALLY IN THIS MOMENT OF
CRISIS.
ESPECIALLY WITH SO MANY JOBS
LOST.
KAMALA AND I BOTH KNOW
>> JUST GIVE ME A SHOT, A FAIR
SHOT.
A SHOT AT MAKING IT.
AND IT WILL BE THE WORK OF OUR
ADMINISTRATION TO MAKE SURE THEY
GET A FAIR SHOT.
WORKING FAMILIES NEED SOMEONE ON
THEIR SIDE IN THIS NATION,
BECAUSE THEY DO NOT HAVE ANYONE
IN THE PRESIDENT NOW ON THEIR
SIDE.
THAT IS GOING TO CHANGE IN A
BIDEN HARRIS ADMINISTRATION.
IT IS GOING TO BE GRATIFYING TO
SEE THE STRONG, ENTHUSIASTIC
REACTION TO SENATOR HARRIS AS
OUR NEXT VICE PRESIDENT.
YOU KNOW, IT COMES FROM PEOPLE
ALL OVER THE COUNTRY.
IT IS ALREADY OCCURRING.
ALL OVER THE COUNTRY, ALL
IDEOLOGICAL VIEWS, ALL
BACKGROUNDS.
EVENTS, WE ARE PREDICTABLE AND
SOME OF THEM.
IT COMES FROM ALL OTHER EXCEPT
FOR DONALD TRUMP'S WHITE HOUSE
AND HIS ALLIES.
WE ALL KNEW IT WAS COMING.
YOU COULD HAVE SET YOUR WATCH IS
TO IT.
DONALD TRUMP HAS ALREADY STARTED
HIS ATTACKS, CALLING KAMALA
NASTY, WHINING ABOUT SHE IS MEAN
TO HER APPOINTEES.
IT IS NO SURPRISE, BECAUSE
WHINING IS WHAT DONALD TRUMP
DOES BEST, BETTER THAN ANY
AMERICAN PRESIDENT IN HISTORY.
IS ANYONE SURPRISED DONALD TRUMP
AS A PROBLEM WITH A STRONG WOMAN
OR WOMEN ACROSS THE BOARD?
LET'S BE CLEAR.
IF YOU ARE A WORKING PERSON
WORRIED ABOUT WHETHER YOU WILL
HAVE A JOB TO GO TO, WHETHER OR
NOT YOU WILL BE ABLE TO PAY YOUR
MORTGAGE, YOUR RENT, WORRIED
ABOUT THE POISON IN THE AIR YOU
BREATHE, THE WATER YOU DRINK,
WORRIED ABOUT YOUR CIVIL RIGHTS,
YOUR RIGHTS TO BASIC DIGNITY,
WHICH IS UNDER ATTACK BY THIS
ADMINISTRATION, KAMALA HARRIS
HAS HAD YOUR BACK, AND NOW WE
HAVE TO HAVE HER BACK.
SHE IS GOING TO STAND WITH ME IN
THIS CAMPAIGN, AND ALL OF US ARE
GOING TO STAND UP FOR HER.
ON JANUARY 20, 2021, WE WILL
WATCH SENATOR HARRIS RAISE HER
RIGHT HAND AND SWEAR THE OATH OF
OFFICE AS THE FIRST WOMAN EVER
TO SERVE AS THE SECOND HIGHEST
OFFICE IN AMERICA, IN THIS LAND.
AND THEN WE WILL GET TO WORK
FIXING THE MESS THAT PRESIDENT
AND VICE PRESIDENT PENCE HAVE
CREATED, BOTH AT HOME AND ABROAD
THROUGH FOUR YEARS OF
MISMANAGEMENT AND MODELING OF
TERRORISTS AND THUGS AROUND THE
WORLD.
NOT ONLY WILL AMERICA DIG ITSELF
OUT OF HIS HOLD A PUT US IN, WE
WILL BUILD BACK.
WE WILL BUILD BACK BETTER.
WE HAVE A PUBLIC HEALTH CRISIS.
KAMALA HARRIS IS IN COURT --
DONALD IS IN COURT TRYING TO DO
AWAY WITH HEALTH CARE.
I 165,000 PEOPLE DEAD AND
CLIMBING AS A CONSEQUENCE OF
COVID-19, AND STILL MONTHS
LATER, NO REAL LEADERSHIP OR
PLAN FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, HOW TO GET THIS
PANDEMIC UNDER CONTROL.
NO REAL HELP FOR THE STATES AND
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TRYING TO FILL
THE VACUUM OF LEADERSHIP FROM
THE WHITE HOUSE.
NO REAL HELP FOR CHILDREN AND
EDUCATORS OR SMALL BUSINESSES
AND FRONT-LINE WORKERS HOLDING
OUR COUNTRY TOGETHER.
INSTEAD, HE IS ISSUING EXECUTIVE
ORDERS AND MAKING PROMISES THAT
IN THE END WILL DEFUND THE
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM WHILE
INSISTING THAT THIS VIRUS WILL
DISAPPEAR.
THE JOE BIDEN KAMALA HARRIS
ADMINISTRATION WILL HAVE A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO MEET THE
CHALLENGE OF COVID-19 AND TURNED
THE CORNER ON THIS PANDEMIC.
MASKING, CLEAR SCIENCE-BASED
GUIDANCE, DRAMATICALLY SCALING
UP TESTING, GETTING STATES AND
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS THE RESOURCES
THEY NEED TO OPEN SCHOOLS AND
BUSINESSES SAFELY.
WE CAN DO THIS.
WE JUST NEED A PRESIDENT AND
VICE PRESIDENT WILLING TO LEAD
AND TAKE RESPONSIBILITY.
NOT AS THIS PRESIDENT SAYS, IT
IS NOT MY FAULT.
THE GOVERNORS SHOULD THANK ME
MORE.
AS THE OLD SAYING GOES, GIVE ME
A BREAK.
WE HAVE AN ECONOMIC CRISIS.
MORE THAN 16 MILLION AMERICANS,
16 MILLION STILL OUT OF WORK.
DONALD TRUMP IS ON TRACK TO
BREAK ANOTHER RECORD, ON TRACK
TO LEAVE OFFICE WITH THE WORST
JOBS RECORD OF ANY AMERICAN
PRESIDENT IN MODERN HISTORY, BUT
INSTEAD OF DOING THE HARD WORK,
MEETING FACE-TO-FACE WITH
CONGRESSIONAL LEADERS, DEMOCRATS
AND REPUBLICANS IN THE WHITE
HOUSE LIKE EVERY OTHER PRESIDENT
HAS DONE IN A CRISIS TO GET
AMERICANS THE RELIEF THEY NEED
AND DESERVE, DONALD TRUMP IS ON
THE GOLF COURSE.
IF I TOLD YOU THIS THREE YEARS
AGO, YOU WOULD LOOK AT ME LIKE I
WAS BEING CRAZY.
HE HAS NOT EVEN MET WITH THE
LEADERSHIP.
SHE DOES NOT HAVE TIME, IT
APPEARS.
WE HAVE A CLIMATE CRISIS, AND
DONALD TRUMP REFUSES TO EVEN
ACKNOWLEDGE.
WHEN HE THINKS ABOUT CLIMATE
CHANGE, ALL WE HEAR IS THE WORD
HOAX.
A BIDEN-HARRIS ADMINISTRATION
WILL MEET THE CLIMATE CRISIS,
PROTECT THE HEALTH OF THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC AND ALONG THE
WAY, WE WILL DELIVER ONE WORD,
JOBS.
GOOD PAYING JOBS.
WE HAVE A RACIAL JUSTICE CRISIS.
DONALD TRUMP SEEKS ONLY TO
INFLAME IT WITH THIS POLITICS OF
RACIST RHETORIC AND APPEALS TO
THE VISION.
TODAY IS NOT ONLY THE DAY I AM
PROUD TO INTRODUCE SENATOR
KAMALA HARRIS AS THE VICE
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE OF THE
PARTY, IT IS ALSO THE THIRD
ANNIVERSARY OF THAT TERRIBLE DAY
IN CHARLOTTESVILLE, REMEMBER?
REMEMBER WHAT IT FELT LIKE TO
SEE THOSE NEO-NAZIS AND THOSE
KLANSMEN, WHITE SUPREMACISTS
COMING OUT OF FIELDS CARRYING
LIGHTED TORCHES, FACES
CONTORTED, BULGING VEINS,
POURING INTO THE STREETS OF
HISTORIC AMERICAN CITIES SPEWING
THE SAME ANTI-SEMITIC BIO WE
HEARD IN HITLER'S GERMANY IN THE
1930'S.
REMEMBER WHAT IT FELT TO SEE A
VIOLENT CLASH ENSUE BETWEEN
THOSE CELEBRATING HATE AND THOSE
STANDING AGAINST IT?
IT WAS A WAKE-UP CALL FOR ALL OF
US AS A COUNTRY, FOR ME, A CALL
TO ACTION.
MY FATHER USED TO SAY AT SILENCE
IS COMPLICITY, NOT ORIGINAL TO
HIM, BUT HE BELIEVED IT.
I KNEW I COULD NOT STAND BY AND
LET DONALD TRUMP, A MAN WHO WENT
ON TO SAY WHEN ASKED ABOUT WHAT
HE THOUGHT HE SAID THERE WERE
VERY FINE PEOPLE ON BOTH SIDES,
VERY FINE PEOPLE ON BOTH SIDES.
NO PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA HAS EVER SAID
ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
YOU SEE HIM CONTINUE TO ATTACK
EVERYTHING THAT MAKES AMERICA
AMERICA.
I KNEW WE WERE IN THE BATTLE FOR
THE SOUL OF THE NATION.
THAT IS WHY I DECIDED TO RUN.
I AM PROUD NOW TO HAVE SENATOR
HARRIS AT MY SIDE IN THAT BATTLE
, BECAUSE SHE SHARES THE SAME
INTENSITY I DO.
SHE IS SOMEONE WHO KNOWS WHAT IS
AT STAKE.
THE QUESTION IS FOR ALL
AMERICANS TO ANSWER, WHO ARE WE
AS A NATION?
WHAT DO WE STAND FOR?
AND MOST IMPORTANTLY, WHAT DO WE
WANT TO BE?
YOU KNOW, SOMEONE WHO KNOWS THAT
THE FUTURE OF THIS COUNTRY IS
LIMITED ONLY BY THE BARRIERS WE
PLACE ON OUR OWN IMAGINATIONS
BECAUSE THERE IS NOTHING
AMERICANS CANNOT ACHIEVE WHEN WE
PUT OUR MINDS TO IT AND WE DO IT
TOGETHER.
ONE OF THE REASONS I CHOSE
KAMALA AS WE BOTH BELIEVE WE CAN
DIVIDE AMERICA SIMPLY IN ONE
WORD, POSSIBILITIES.
POSSIBILITIES.
LET ME SAY IT AGAIN.
POSSIBILITIES, THAT IS AMERICA.
THAT IS WHAT SETS THIS NATION
APART IS THAT EVERYONE,
EVERYONE, THE ABILITY FOR
EVERYONE, AND WE MEAN EVERYONE
TO GO AS FAR A DREAM AS BIG AS
HARD WORK AND THEIR GOD-GIVEN
ABILITY WILL TAKE THEM.
WHEN I AGREED TO SERVE AS
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S RUNNING MATE,
HE ASKED ME A NUMBER OF
QUESTIONS THAT I ASKED KAMALA.
THE MOST IMPORTANT TO ME, HE
ASKED WHAT I WANTED, MOST
IMPORTANTLY?
I TOLD HIM I WANTED TO BE THE
LAST PERSON IN THE ROOM BEFORE
HE MADE IMPORTANT DECISIONS.
THAT IS WHAT I ASKED KAMALA.
I ASKED HER TO BE THE LAST VOICE
OF THE ROOM, TO ALWAYS TELL ME
THE TRUTH, AND SHE WILL.
CHALLENGE MY ASSUMPTIONS IF SHE
DISAGREES.
ASK THE HARD QUESTIONS.
THAT IS THE WAY WE MAKE THE BEST
DECISIONS FOR THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
I GOT A CHANCE TO SPEND SOME
TIME AT MY HOME TODAY WITH
KAMALA AND DOUG, AND I WANT TO
THANK THEM AND THANK THEM
PUBLICLY FOR AGREEING TO JOIN
AND TAKE THIS JOURNEY WITH JILL
AND ME.
DOUG, YOU WILL HAVE TO LEARN
WHAT IT MEANS TO BE A BARRIER
BREAKER YOURSELF IN THIS JOB YOU
ARE ABOUT TO TAKE ON.
AMERICA'S FIRST SECOND GENTLEMAN
, AND ALTHOUGH THEY ARE NOT HERE
WITH US TODAY, I WANT TO THANK
ELLEN AND COAL AS WELL.
I HAD A CHANCE TO SPEAK TO
DOUG'S MOM AND DAD, AND WE ARE
GOING TO GET OUR KIDS TOGETHER
TO LET THEM KNOW WHAT IS COMING.
MY GRANDCHILDREN ARE ABOUT THE
AGE OF THEIR CHILDREN.
I GOT TO SPEAK TO THEM.
MY CAMPAIGN HAS ALWAYS BEEN A
FAMILY AFFAIR, EVERY CAMPAIGN I
HAVE RUN, SO I HAVE GOT SOME
NEWS FOR YOU.
YOU ARE ALL HONORARY BIDENS.
HERE IS THE BEST PART.
YOU HAVE BEEN AN HONORARY BIDENS
FOR QUITE SOME TIME.
I CAME FIRST TO KNOW WHO KAMALA
THROUGH OUR SON BEAU BIDEN.
THEY WERE FRIENDS.
THEY SERVED AS ATTORNEYS GENERAL
AT THE SAME TIME.
THEY TOOK ON THE SAME BIG FIGHTS
TOGETHER.
KAMALA IN CALIFORNIA, BO IN
DELAWARE.
BIG FIGHTS THAT HELP CHANGE THE
ENTIRE COUNTRY.
I KNOW HOW MUCH BEAU RESPECTED
KAMALA AND HER WORK.
THAT MEANT A LOT TO ME AS I MADE
THIS DECISION.
NOW WE NEED TO GET TO WORK
PULLING THIS NATION OUT OF THESE
CRISES WE FIND OURSELVES IN.
ENDING OUR ECONOMY BACK ON
TRACK, UNITING THIS NATION, AND
WINNING THE BATTLE FOR THE SOUL
OF AMERICA.
MY FELLOW AMERICANS, LET ME
INTRODUCE TO YOU FOR THE FIRST
TIME YOUR NEXT VICE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES, KAMALA HARRIS
.
THE FLOOR IS YOURS.
SEN. HARRIS: THANK YOU, JOE.
THANK YOU, JOE.
AS I SAID WHEN YOU CALLED ME, I
AM INCREDIBLY HONORED BY THIS
RESPONSIBILITY AND I AM READY TO
GET TO WORK.
I AM READY TO GET TO WORK.
AFTER THE MOST COMPETITIVE
PRIMARY IN HISTORY, THE COUNTRY
RECEIVED A RESOUNDING MESSAGE
THAT JOE WAS THE PERSON TO LEAD
US FORWARD, AND I AM SO PROUD TO
STAND WITH YOU, AND I DO SO
MINDFUL OF ALL OF THE HEROIC AND
AMBITIOUS WOMEN BEFORE ME WHOSE
SACRIFICE, DETERMINATION, AND
RESILIENCE MAKES MY PRESENCE
HERE TODAY EVEN POSSIBLE.
THIS IS A MOMENT OF REAL
CONSEQUENCE FOR AMERICA.
EVERYTHING WE CARE ABOUT, OUR
ECONOMY, OUR HEALTH, OUR
CHILDREN, THE KIND OF COUNTRY WE
LIVE IN, IT IS ALL ON THE LINE.
WE ARE REALLY -- REALLY
--REELING FROM THE WORST PUBLIC
HEALTH CRISIS IN A CENTURY.
AT THE PRESIDENT'S MISMANAGEMENT
OF THE PANDEMIC HAS PLUNGED US
INTO THE WORST ECONOMIC CRISIS
SINCE THE GREAT DEPRESSION, AND
WE ARE EXPERIENCING A MORAL
RECKONING WITH RACISM AND
SYSTEMIC INJUSTICE THAT HAS
BROUGHT A NEW COALITION OF
CONSCIENCE TO THE STREETS OF OUR
COUNTRY DEMANDING CHANGE.
AMERICA IS CRYING OUT FOR
LEADERSHIP, YET WE HAVE A
PRESIDENT WHO CARES MORE ABOUT
HIMSELF THAN THE PEOPLE WHO
ELECTED HIM, A PRESIDENT WHO IS
MAKING EVERY CHALLENGE WE FACE
EVEN MORE DIFFICULT TO SOLVE,
BUT HERE IS THE GOOD NEWS.
WE DO NOT HAVE TO ACCEPT THE
FAILED GOVERNMENT OF DONALD
TRUMP AND MIKE PENCE.
IN JUST 83 DAYS, WE HAVE A
CHANCE TO CHOOSE A BETTER FUTURE
FOR OUR COUNTRY.
SO, JOE, DR. BIDEN, THANK YOU
FOR THE TRUST YOU HAVE PLACED IN
ME.
JILL, I KNOW YOU WILL BE AN
INCREDIBLE FIRST LADY, AND MY
HUSBAND DOUG AND I ARE SO
GRATEFUL, GRATEFUL TO BECOME A
PART OF YOUR EXTENDED FAMILY.
EVER SINCE I RECEIVED JO'S CALL,
I HAVE BEEN THINKING, YES, ABOUT
THE FIRST BIDEN I REALLY CAME TO
KNOW, AND THAT OF COURSE IS JO'S
BELOVED SON BEAU.
IN THE MIDST OF THE GREAT
RECESSION, BEAU AND I SPOKE ON
THE PHONE SOMETIMES MULTIPLE
TIMES A DAY WORKING TOGETHER TO
WIN BACK BILLIONS OF DOLLARS FOR
HOMEOWNERS FROM THE BIG BANKS OF
THE NATION THAT WERE FORECLOSING
ON PEOPLE'S HOMES, AND LET ME
TELL YOU ABOUT BEAU BIDEN, I
LEARNED QUICKLY THAT BEAU WAS
THE KIND OF GUY WHO INSPIRED
PEOPLE TO BE A BETTER VERSION OF
THEMSELVES.
HE REALLY WAS THE BEST OF US.
WHEN I WOULD ASK HIM, WHERE DID
YOU GET THAT?
WHERE DID THIS COME FROM?
HE WOULD ALWAYS TALK ABOUT HIS
DAD.
AND I WILL TELL YOU THE LOVE
THAT THEY SHARED WAS INCREDIBLE
TO WATCH.
IT WAS THE MOST BEAUTIFUL
DISPLAY OF THE LOVE BETWEEN A
FATHER AND A SON.
AND BEAU TALKED ABOUT HOW JOE
WOULD SPEND EVERY DAY WRITING
THE RAILS FROM WILMINGTON TO
WASHINGTON, D.C. SO HE COULD
MAKE BREAKFAST FOR HIS KIDS IN
THE MORNING AND MAKE IT HOME IN
TIME TO TUCK THEM IN BED EACH
NIGHT.
ALL OF THIS SO TWO LITTLE BOYS:
I JUST LOST THEIR MOM AND SISTER
IN A TRAGIC ACCIDENT WOULD KNOW
THAT THE WORLD WAS STILL
TURNING, AND THAT IS HOW I CAME
TO KNOW JOE.
HE IS SOMEONE WHOSE FIRST
RESPONSE WHEN THINGS GET TOUGH
IS NEVER TO THINK ABOUT HIMSELF,
BUT TO CARE FOR EVERYONE ELSE.
HE IS SOMEONE WHO NEVER ASKED,
WHY IS THIS HAPPENING TO ME, AND
INSTEAD ASKS, WHAT CAN I DO TO
MAKE LIFE BETTER FOR YOU?
IS EMPATHY, HIS COMPUTER -- HIS
EMPATHY, AND HIS COMPASSION, AND
HIS SENSE OF DUTY TO CARE FOR
OTHERS IS WHY I AM SO PROUD TO
BE ON THIS TICKET.
JOE AND I, YES, WE ARE CUT FROM
THE SAME CLOTH.
I CANNOT WAIT FOR AMERICA TO GET
TO KNOW MY HUSBAND DOUG AND OUR
AMAZING KIDS, BECAUSE WHETHER I
AM CHEERING IN THE BLEACHERS AT
A SWIM MEET WERE SETTING UP A
COLLEGE ROOM DOOR OR HELPING MY
GODDAUGHTER PREPARE FOR MY
SCHOOL -- FOR HER SCHOOL DEBATE
OR BUILDING LEGOS WITH MY GODSON
OR HUGGING MY TWO BABY NIECES OR
COOKING DINNER, SUNDAY DINNER,
MY FAMILY MEANS EVERYTHING TO
ME.
I HAVE HAD A LOT OF TITLES OVER
MY CAREER, AND CERTAINLY VICE
PRESIDENT WILL BE GREAT, BUT
MAMA WILL ALWAYS BE THE ONE THAT
MEANS THE MOST.
MY MOTHER AND FATHER, THEY CAME
FROM OPPOSITE SIDES OF THE WORLD
TO ARRIVE IN AMERICA.
ONE FROM INDIA, AND THE OTHER
FROM JAMAICA IN SEARCH OF A
WORLD-CLASS EDUCATION, BUT WHAT
BROUGHT THEM TOGETHER WAS THE
CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT OF THE
1960'S, AND THAT IS HOW THEY
MET, AS STUDENTS IN THE STREETS
OF OAKLAND MARCHING AND SHOUTING
FOR THIS THING CALLED JUSTICE
AND A STRUGGLE THAT CONTINUES
TODAY.
I WAS PART OF IT.
MY PARENTS WOULD BRING ME TO
PROTESTS STRAPPED TIGHTLY IN MY
STROLLER, AND MY MOTHER RAISED
MY SISTER MAIA AND ME TO BELIEVE
IT WAS UP TO US AND EVERY
GENERATION OF AMERICANS TO KEEP
ON MARCHING.
SHE WOULD TELL US, DO NOT SIT
AROUND AND COMPLAIN ABOUT
THINGS, DO SOMETHING.
SO I DID SOMETHING.
I DEVOTED MY LIFE TO MAKING REAL
THE WORDS CARVED IN THE UNITED
STATES SUPREME COURT EQUAL
JUSTICE UNDER LAW.
ADD 30 YEARS AGO, I STOOD BEFORE
A JUDGE FOR THE FIRST TIME,
BREATHED DEEP AND UTTERED THE
PHRASE THAT WOULD TRULY GUIDE MY
CAREER AND THE REST OF MY
CAREER, KAMALA HARRIS FOR THE
PEOPLE.
THE PEOPLE, THAT IS WHO I HAVE
REPRESENTED AS DISTRICT ATTORNEY
FIGHTING ON BEHALF OF VICTIMS
WHO NEEDED HELP, THE PEOPLE.
THAT IS WHO I VOTE FOR IS
CALIFORNIA'S ATTORNEY GENERAL
WHEN I TOOK ON TRANSNATIONAL
CRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS TO
TRAFFIC AND GUNS AND DRUGS AND
HUMAN BEINGS.
IT IS THE PEOPLE WHO LIFT HAVE
FOUGHT FOR AS A UNITED STATES
SENATOR, WHERE I HAVE WORKED
EVERY DAY TO HOLD OFFICIALS
ACCOUNTABLE TO THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
AND THE PEOPLE ARE WHO JOE AND I
WILL FIGHT FOR EVERY DAY IN THE
WHITE HOUSE.
LET ME TELL YOU.
AS SOMEBODY WHO HAS PRESENTED MY
FAIR SHARE OF ARGUMENTS IN
COURT, THE CASE AGAINST DONALD
TRUMP AND MIKE PENCE IS OPEN AND
SHUT.
JUST LOOK AT THEY HAVE GOTTEN
US.
MORE THAN 16 MILLION OUT OF WORK
, MILLIONS OF KIDS WHO CANNOT GO
BACK TO SCHOOL, A CRISIS OF
PROPERTY, HOMELESSNESS
INFLICTING BLACK, BROWN AND
INDIGENOUS PEOPLE OF THE MOST.
A CRISIS OF HUNGER INFLICTING
ONE IN A FIVE MOTHERS WHO HAVE
CHILDREN'S WHO ARE HUNGRY, AND
TRAGICALLY, MORE THAN A 165,000
LIVES THAT HAVE BEEN CUT SHORT.
MANY WITH LOVED ONES WHO NEVER
GOT THE CHANCE TO SAY GOODBYE.
IT DID NOT HAVE TO BE THIS WAY.
SIX YEARS AGO, WE HAD A
DIFFERENT HEALTH CRISIS.
IT WAS CALLED EBOLA, AND WE ALL
REMEMBER THAT PANDEMIC.
YOU KNOW WHAT HAPPENED THEN?
BARACK OBAMA AND JOE BIDEN DID
THEIR JOBS.
ONLY TWO PEOPLE IN THE UNITED
STATES DIE, TWO.
THAT IS WHAT IS CALLED
LEADERSHIP.
COMPARE THAT TO THE MOMENT WE
FIND OURSELVES IN NOW, WHEN
OTHER COUNTRIES ARE FOLLOWING
THE SCIENCE, TRUMP PUSHED
MIRACLE CURES TO SELL ON FOX
NEWS.
WHILE OTHER COUNTRIES WERE
FLATTENING THE CURVES, HE SAID
THE VIRUS WOULD JUST, PROOF
--POOF, GO AWAY LIKE A MIRACLE.
WHILE OTHER COUNTRIES OPEN BACK
OF HER BUSINESS, WHAT DID WE DO?
WE HAD TO SHUT DOWN AGAIN.
THIS VIRUS HAS IMPACTED ALMOST
EVERY COUNTRY, BUT THERE IS A
REASON IT HAS HIT AMERICA WORSE
THAN ANY OTHER ADVANCED NATION.
IT IS BECAUSE OF TRUMPS --
TRUMP'S FAILURE TO TAKE IT
SERIOUSLY FROM THE START.
HIS REFUSAL TO GET TESTING UP
AND RUNNING, AND FLIP-FLOPPING
ON SOCIAL DISTANCING AND WEARING
MASKS.
IT IS DELUSIONAL BELIEF THAT HE
KNOWS BETTER THAN THE EXPERTS.
ALL OF THAT IS REASON, THE
RECENT THAT AN AMERICAN DIES OF
COVID-19 EVERY 80 SECONDS.
IT IS WHY COUNTLESS BUSINESSES
HAVE HAD TO SHUT THEIR DOORS FOR
GOOD.
IT IS WHY THERE IS COMPLETE
CHAOS OVER WHEN AND HOW TO
REOPEN OUR SCHOOLS, MOTHERS AND
FATHERS ARE CONFUSED AND
UNCERTAIN AND ANGRY ABOUT
CHILDCARE AND TO SAFETY OF THEIR
KIDS AT SCHOOL, WHETHER THEY
WILL BE IN DANGER IF THEY GO OR
FALL BEHIND IF THEY DO NOT.
TRUMP IS ALSO THE REASON IT
MILLIONS OF AMERICANS ARE NOW
UNEMPLOYED.
HE INHERITED THE LONGEST
ECONOMIC EXPANSION IN HISTORY
FROM BARACK OBAMA AND JOE BIDEN,
AND THEN, LIKE EVERYTHING ELSE
HE INHERITED, HE RAN IT STRAIGHT
INTO THE GROUND.
BECAUSE OF TRUMPS FAILURES --
TRUMP'S FAILURES OF LEADERSHIP,
OUR ECONOMY HAS TAKEN ONE OF THE
BIGGEST HITS OUT OF ALL OF THE
MAJOR INDUSTRIALIZED NATIONS
WITH AN UNEMPLOYMENT RATE THAT
HAS TRIPLED AS OF TODAY.
THIS IS WHAT HAPPENS WHEN WE
ELECT THE GUY WHO JUST IS NOT UP
FOR THE JOB.
OUR COUNTRY ENDS UP IN TATTERS,
AND SO DOES OUR REPUTATION
AROUND THE WORLD.
BUT LET'S BE CLEAR.
THIS ELECTION IS NOT JUST ABOUT
DEFEATING DONALD TRUMP OR MIKE
PENCE, IT IS ABOUT BUILDING THIS
COUNTRY BACK BETTER.
THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT JOE AND I
WILL DO.
WE WILL CREATE MILLIONS OF JOBS
AND FIGHT CLIMATE CHANGE THROUGH
A CLEAN ENERGY RESOLUTION, BRING
BRACK -- BACK CRITICAL SUPPLY
CHAINS.
BUILD ON THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
SO EVERYONE HAS THE PEACE OF
MIND THAT COMES WITH HEALTH
INSURANCE AND FINALLY OFFERED
CAREGIVERS THE DIGNITY, THE
RESPECT, AND THE PAY THEY
DESERVE.
WE WILL PROTECT A WOMAN'S RIGHT
TO MAKE HER OWN DECISIONS ABOUT
HER OWN BODY, WROTE OUT SYSTEMIC
--ROOT OUT SYSTEMIC RACISM IN
OUR JUSTICE SYSTEM AND PASS A
JOHN LEWIS VOTING RIGHTS ACT
THAT WILL ENSURE EVERY VOICE IS
HEARD AND EVERY VOICE IS
COUNTED.
THE CIVIL RIGHTS STRUGGLE IS
NOTHING NEW TO JOE.
IT IS LIKE YOU GOT INTO PUBLIC
SERVICE, WHY HE HELPED
REAUTHORIZE THE VOTING RIGHTS
ACT AND RESTORE UNEMPLOYMENT
DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT
DISCRIMINATION LAWS.
HE TAKES HIS PLACE IN THE
ONGOING STORY OF AMERICA'S MARCH
TOWARD EQUALITY AND JUSTICE AS
THE ONLY, AS THE ONLY WAY SERVED
ALONGSIDE THE FIRST BLACK
PRESIDENT AND HAS CHOSEN THE
FIRST BLACK WOMAN AS HIS RUNNING
MATE.
BUT AS JOE ALWAYS POINTS OUT,
THIS ELECTION IS ABOUT MORE THAN
POLITICS.
IT IS ABOUT WHO WE ARE AS A
COUNTRY.
I WILL ADMIT OVER THE PAST FOUR
YEARS THERE HAVE BEEN MOMENTS
WHERE I HAVE TRULY WORRIED ABOUT
OUR FUTURE.
WHENEVER I THINK THAT THERE IS A
REASON FOR DOUBT, WHENEVER I
HAVE HAD MY OWN DOUBTS, I THINK
OF YOU, THE AMERICAN PEOPLE, THE
DOCTORS AND NURSES AND FRONTLINE
WORKERS WHO ARE RISKING YOUR
LIVES TO SAVE OTHERS, THE TRUCK
DRIVERS AND WORKERS IN GROCERY
STORES, IN FACTORIES, FARMS
WORKING THERE, PUTTING YOUR OWN
SAFETY ON THE LINE TO UP US GET
THROUGH THIS PANDEMIC, THE WOMEN
AND STUDENTS TAKING TO THE
STREETS IN UNPRECEDENTED NUMBERS
, THE DREAMERS AND IMMIGRANTS
WHO KNOW THAT FAMILIES BELONG
TOGETHER, THE LGBTQ AMERICANS
WHO KNOW WHAT LOVE IS LOVE,
PEOPLE OF EVERY AGE AND COLOR
AND GREAT YOU FINALLY DECLARING
IN ONE VOICE, BLACK LIVES MATTER
.
ALL ACROSS THE COUNTRY -- THIS
COUNTRY, A NEW GENERATION OF
CHILDREN IS HEARING UP --
GROWING UP HEARING THE CRIES FOR
JUSTICE AND CHANTS OF HOPE ON
WHICH I WAS RAISED, SOME
STRAPPED INTO STROLLERS OF THEIR
OWN.
IT IS A SONG YOU WILL NEVER
FORGET.
TO EVERYONE KEEPING UP THE
FIGHT, YOU ARE DOING SOMETHING.
YOU ARE DOING SOMETHING GREAT.
YOU ARE THE HEROES OF OUR TIME,
AND YOU ARE THE REASON.
I KNOW WE ARE GOING TO BRING OUR
COUNTRY CLOSER TO REALIZING IT'S
GREAT PROMISE.
TO DO IT, WE WILL NEED TO WORK,
ORGANIZE AND VOTE LIKE NEVER
BEFORE.
WE NEED MORE THAN A VICTORY ON
NOVEMBER 3.
WE NEED A MANDATE THAT PROVES
THE PAST FOUR YEARS ARE WHO WE
ARE OR WHO WE ASPIRE TO BE.
JOE LIKES TO SAY THAT CHARACTER
IS ON THE BALLOT, AND IT IS
TRUE.
WHEN HE SAW WHAT HAPPENED IN
CHARLOTTESVILLE THREE YEARS AGO
TODAY, Q KNEW WE WERE IN A
BATTLE FOR THE SOUL OF OUR
NATION.
TOGETHER WITH YOUR HELP, IT IS A
BATTLE WE WILL WIN.
EARLIER THIS YEAR, I SAID I
WOULD DO WHATEVER JOE ASKED ME
TO DO.
NOW I AM ASKING YOU TO DO THE
SAME.
VISIT JOB--JOEBIDEN.COM.
ELECTING JOE BIDEN IS JUST THE
START OF THE WORK AHEAD OF US.
I COULD NOT BE PROUDER TO BE BUT
DECIDED RUNNING TO REPRESENT
YOU, THE PEOPLE.
THANK YOU, AND MAY GOD BLESS THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
>> AND THERE YOU HAVE IT, 24
HOURS AFTER ANNOUNCING SENATOR
KAMALA HARRIS IS HIS RUNNING
MATE, THE SCENE AT A HIGH SCHOOL
IN WILMINGTON, DELAWARE.
SENATOR HARRIS LEAVING
WASHINGTON, D.C. EARLIER TODAY
FOR THE TRIP VIA THE SUBURBAN
VEHICLE TO GET TO WILMINGTON,
DELAWARE AND THE